.\" $Id: burgerspace.6.in,v 1.3 2013/02/25 05:04:43 sarrazip Exp $
.\" BurgerSpace manual page
.\"
.\" burgerspace - A hamburger-smashing video game.
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2013 Pierre Sarrazin <http://sarrazip.com/>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\"
.TH burgerspace "6" "February 25th, 2013" "" ""
.SH NAME
burgerspace \- A hamburger-smashing video game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B burgerspace
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBBurgerSpace\fR
is a game where you are a chef and you must walk over hamburger
ingredients (buns, meat, lettuce, tomatoes, cheese) to make them fall
from floor to floor, until they end up in the plates at the bottom of
the screen.
Use the 
\fBarrow keys\fR
to move the chef.
.PP
However, you must do this while avoiding terrible enemies,
such as eggs, sausages and pickles.  You will die if
they touch you, but you can spray pepper on them with the
\fBControl key\fR
to paralyze them temporarily.
.PP
Use those pepper shots sparingly because you only
have a limited number of them.  Pick up the treat that appears
from time to time to obtain a new pepper shot.
.PP
A two-player game is possible using the (experimental)
networked version of BurgerSpace.
See the burgerspace-server(6) manual page or
the BurgerSpace Home Page for details.
.PP
Use the \fBEscape key\fR to quit the program.
To pause the game (which is only possible in stand-alone mode),
use the \fBP key\fR to pause the game and to resume it afterwards.
.PP
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
display a help page and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
display version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sound\fR
Disable the sound effects, which are enabled by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-full\-screen\fR
Attempt to use the full screen mode.  The default is to display the
game in an ordinary window.
.TP
\fB\-\-z\-for\-pepper\fR
Use the Z key instead of the Control key to shoot pepper.
.PP
.SH STAND-ALONE OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-initial\-level=N\fR
start game at level N.  Default is 1.  N must be at least 1.
.TP
\fB\-\-ms\-per\-frame=N\fR
N milliseconds per animation frame.  Default is 55.
Minimum is 1.  Maximum is 1000.  50 means 20 frames per second.
.PP
.SH NETWORK CLIENT OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-server=HOSTNAME\fR
Start as a client that connects to a BurgerSpace server running
on the given host or IP address.
Examples: \-\-server=localhost, \-\-server=192.168.1.2
If this option is not given, the program starts as a stand-alone game
that does not try to connect to any server.
.TP
\fB\-\-port=PORT\fR
UDP port number on which the BurgerSpace server is running.
This option is only useful with \-\-server.
The default is 49152.
.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you may redistribute it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License version 2 or any later version.
This program has absolutely no warranty.
.SH AUTHORS
Pierre Sarrazin (code)
.br
Luce St-Amand (most images)
.SH FILES
This program uses the
\fBflatzebra\fR library, by the same author.
This library is itself based on the SDL graphics library
(see http://www.libsdl.org).
.PP
See the BurgerSpace Home Page:
.br
http://sarrazip.com/dev/burgerspace.html
